Add documentation for remote cluster proxy mode (#52779)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/modules/remote-clusters.asciidoc

<<modules-cross-cluster-search,{ccs}>>.
endif::[]

Remote cluster connections work by configuring a remote cluster and connecting
to a limited number of nodes in that remote cluster. There are two modes for
remote cluster connections: <<sniff-mode,sniff mode>> and
<<proxy-mode,proxy mode>>.

All the communication required between different clusters
goes through the <<modules-transport,transport layer>>. Remote cluster
connections consist of uni-directional connections from the coordinating
node to the remote remote connections.

[float]
[[sniff-mode]]
=== Sniff mode

In sniff mode, a cluster is created using a name and a list of seed nodes. When
a remote cluster is registered, its cluster state is retrieved from one of the
seed nodes and up to three _gateway nodes_ are selected as part of remote
cluster requests. This mode requires that the gateway node's publish addresses

> are exposed to the local cluster.

Reviewer: "accessible" is more consistent with what's stated in "proxy" mode and has less of a negative connotation.
```suggestion
cluster requests. This mode requires that the gateway node's publish addresses
are accessible by the local cluster.
```

> The sniff mode is the default connection mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sniff mode is the default connection mode.
```

> // tag::how-remote-clusters-work[]

Reviewer: The content is this tagged region gets re-used here:
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/modules-cross-cluster-search.html#ccs-works

Originally, that was intended to explain the concept of gateway nodes _before_ the recommendations outlined here:
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/modules-cross-cluster-search.html#ccs-gateway-seed-nodes

With this changes, I don't think this re-use makes sense anymore. I'm also not sure if those recommendations would work with proxy mode.

Could you advise on how these changes would impact those CCS recommendations? After that, you can either update those docs as a part of this PR or I can update them as part of a separate PR. Thanks!

Remote cluster connections work by configuring a remote cluster and connecting

> only to a limited number of nodes in that remote cluster. There are two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a limited number of nodes in that remote cluster. There are two
```

> potential modes for remote cluster connections: sniff mode and proxy mode.

Reviewer 2: I would remove the word "potential" here.

Reviewer 2: also, perhaps link sniff and proxy to the corresponding sections below?

All the communication required between different clusters
goes through the <<modules-transport,transport layer>>. Remote cluster
connections consist of uni-directional connections from the coordinating
node to the remote remote connections.
// end::how-remote-clusters-work[]

[float]
[[sniff-mode]]
=== Sniff mode

> // tag::how-sniff-mode-works[]

Reviewer: It doesn't look like this section is reused anywhere. I would remove the tags until the content is actually reused.
```suggestion
```

> A cluster in sniff mode is created by a name and a list of seed nodes. When a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cluster in sniff mode is created using a name and a list of seed nodes. When a
```

remote cluster is registered, its cluster state is retrieved from one of the
seed nodes and up to three _gateway nodes_ are selected to be connected to as

> part of remote cluster requests. This mode requires that the _gateway node_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seed nodes and up to three _gateway nodes_ are selected as
part of remote cluster requests. This mode requires that the gateway node's
```

publish addresses are exposed to the local cluster.

The sniff mode is the default connection mode.

> // end::how-sniff-mode-works[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(see <<remote-cluster-settings>>), though such tagged nodes still have
to satisfy the two above requirements.

[float]
[[proxy-mode]]
=== Proxy mode

> // tag::how-proxy-mode-works[]

Reviewer: I'd remove this unneeded tag.
```suggestion
```

> A cluster in proxy mode is created by a name and a single proxy address. When

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In proxy mode, a cluster is created using a name and a single proxy address. When
```

a remote cluster is registered, a configurable number of socket connections are
opened to the proxy address. The proxy is required to route those connections to
the remote cluster. Proxy mode does not require that the remote cluster nodes

> publish addresses are accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the remote cluster. Proxy mode does not require remote cluster nodes
to have accessible publish addresses.
```

The proxy mode is not the default connection mode and must be configured. Similar
to the sniff <<gateway-nodes-selection,gateway nodes>>, the remote
connections are subject to the same version compatibility rules as
<<rolling-upgrades>>.

> // end::how-proxy-mode-works[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        cluster_one: <1>
            seeds: 127.0.0.1:9300 <2>
            transport.ping_schedule: 30s <3>
        cluster_two: <1>
            mode: sniff <4>
            seeds: 127.0.0.1:9301 <2>
            transport.compress: true <5>
            skip_unavailable: true <6>
        cluster_three: <1>
            mode: proxy <4>
            proxy_address: 127.0.0.1:9302 <7>

--------------------------------
<1> `cluster_one`, `cluster_two`, and `cluster_three` are arbitrary _cluster aliases_
representing the connection to each cluster. These names are subsequently used to
distinguish between local and remote indices.
<2> The hostname and <<modules-transport,transport>> port (default: 9300) of a
seed node in the remote cluster.
<3> A keep-alive ping is configured for `cluster_one`.

> <4> The configured connection mode. By default it is <<sniff-mode,sniff>>, so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> The configured connection mode. By default, this is <<sniff-mode,`sniff`>>, so
```

// TEST[s/127.0.0.1:9300/\${transport_host}/]

You can dynamically update the compression and ping schedule settings. However,

> you must re-include seeds or proxy_address in the settings update request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you must re-include seeds or a `proxy_address` in the settings update request.
```

[[remote-cluster-settings]]

> === Remote cluster settings

Reviewer 2: Remote cluster settings for all modes?

> `cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.mode`::

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add a sentence above the first setting stating that this section is covering settings that apply to both sniff and proxy mode, and that mode-specific settings are coming later.

  Elasticsearch compresses the response. If unset, the global
  `transport.compress` is used as the fallback setting.

[float]
[[remote-cluster-sniff-settings]]
=== Remote cluster settings for sniff mode

> `cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.seeds`::

Reviewer: Our docs typically use the `<variable>` convention.
```suggestion
`cluster.remote.<cluster_alias>.seeds`::
```

  The list of seed nodes used to sniff the remote cluster state.

> `cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.node_connections`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cluster.remote.<cluster_alias>.node_connections`::
```

  The number of gateway nodes to connect to for this remote cluster. The default
  is `3`.

`cluster.remote.node.attr`::

  A node attribute to filter out nodes that are eligible as a gateway node in
  the remote cluster. For instance a node can have a node attribute
  `node.attr.gateway: true` such that only nodes with this attribute will be
  connected to if `cluster.remote.node.attr` is set to `gateway`.

[float]
[[remote-cluster-proxy-settings]]
=== Remote cluster settings for proxy mode

> `cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.proxy_address`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cluster.remote.<cluster_alias>.proxy_address`::
```

  The address used for all remote connections.

> `cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.proxy_socket_connections`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cluster.remote.<cluster_alias>.proxy_socket_connections`::
```

  The number of socket connections to open per remote cluster. The default is
  `18`.
ifndef::include-xpack[]

> `cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.server_name`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cluster.remote.<cluster_alias>.server_name`::
```

> `cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.server_name`::

Reviewer: I think this should be `ifdef`, not `ifndef`.

I'm also not sure if it's necessary to do `ifdef::include-xpack[]`. Adding `[role="xpack"]` before the setting def should suffice.

```suggestion

[role="xpack"]
`cluster.remote.${cluster_alias}.server_name`::
```

>   An optional hostname string which will be sent in the server_name field of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An optional hostname string which is sent in the server_name field of
```

  the TLS Server Name Indication extension if

>   <<configuring-tls,{TLS is enabled}>>. The TLS transport will fail to open

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <<configuring-tls,TLS is enabled>>. The TLS transport will fail to open
```

  remote connections if this field is not a valid hostname as defined by the
  TLS SNI specification.

> endif::[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  Elasticsearch compresses the response. If unset, the global
  `transport.compress` is used as the fallback setting.

[float]
[[remote-cluster-sniff-settings]]

> === Remote cluster sniff mode settings

Reviewer 2: Remote cluster settings for sniff mode?
